The `let` operation explicitly binds its input value to a named identifier 
within a Gendo pipeline. It acts purely as an identity transform, directly 
passing its input to its output without modifying it. The primary purpose of 
`let` is to provide clear and explicit naming for intermediate pipeline values, 
enhancing readability and clarity.

The syntax of the `let` operation is as follows:

  [ $destination ] let [ argument ]

The `$destination` is optional. If omitted, the value is bound implicitly to the 
special slot `_`. The `argument` is also optional. When provided, it specifies 
the value or existing identifier to be bound to the destination. If the 
`argument` is omitted, the current value of `_` is used implicitly. If both 
`$destination` and `argument` are omitted, `_` is explicitly reset to an empty 
array, clearing any previously bound values.

An example of explicit binding using both destination and argument would look 
like this:

  $persona let "You are a helpful assistant."

In this example, the string "You are a helpful assistant." is explicitly bound 
to the identifier `persona`.

Using `let` with only the destination (no explicit argument provided) binds the 
current value of `_` to the new identifier. For example:

  $context-param let

In this case, the current value of `_` is assigned to `context-param`, and `_` 
itself remains unchanged.

Using `let` without any arguments explicitly resets `_` to an empty array. 
Although this usage is uncommon, it provides a clear mechanism to explicitly 
clear pipeline context:

  let

After this instruction, the special slot `_` holds an empty array, effectively 
clearing prior context or intermediate data.

All identifiers bound with `let` follow the single-assignment rule, meaning 
each identifier may only be assigned once within a pipeline. Attempting to 
rebind an identifier will result in an error.

The `let` operation itself is pure, meaning it does not perform any side 
effects and never modifies the values it passes through. It simply assigns 
names and manages the pipeline context explicitly.
